Our team at CISA often receives questions about why creation of a “security.txt” file was included as one of the priority Cybersecurity Performance Goals (CPGs). Why is it so important? Well, it’s such a simple concept, but it provides great value to all of those involved in vulnerability management and disclosure.

When security researchers and bug hunters uncover vulnerabilities in an organization’s ecosystem, how do they even know who to reach out to? Without clear reporting channels, researchers may be unable to quickly discern where to report vulnerabilities – meanwhile the organization remains vulnerable to attackers. However, there is an opportunity for all organizations to overcome this obstacle in line with CISA’s guidance through a simple text file - the security.txt file.

Earlier this year, CISA launched the Ransomware Vulnerability Warning Pilot (RVWP) program, which proactively discovers and notifies organizations of their exposure to internet-accessible vulnerabilities used in ransomware attacks. This is a proactive program used to enable organizations to take early mitigation measures before an incident occurs. Our current notification process can be hampered by the inability to find appropriate point of contact information for organizations. According to a recent study, only about a half of a percent of the world’s top one million websites publish a security.txt file. The lack of this simple file leads to multiple emails and phone calls to the organization, delaying the notification process and the organization’s awareness of the critical need to mitigate their risk to ransomware.

In an effort to accelerate the delivery of all notifications, CISA supports using the “security.txt” standard to streamline notifications and reduce the risk of compromise. It not only helps our work but also supports other partners that try to warn organizations of internet-accessible vulnerabilities susceptible to cyber threat actors – this is most important for organizations aligned to our most valuable critical infrastructure sectors. 

For those that don’t already know, the security.txt is a proposed Internet standard, RFC 9116, which concisely advertises an entity’s vulnerability disclosure process. Like robots.txt, this machine-readable file resides on a public-facing webserver, either in the root or “well-known” directory, where security professionals and researchers can quickly identify the entity’s preferences for reporting vulnerabilities. Each domain and subdomain within an entity’s network should have its own security.txt file.